So let's tackle our list of users next.
Now the first important question is
where do we wanna output?
And the second question that depends on the first one
is where we then actually wanna manage our list of users?
So where do we wanna output that list?
We get the user data here in the AddUser component
and technically we could simply add more HTML code
in that component to all the render a list,
maybe here unordered list below the form.
We could then manage our list of users with use state in
here in AddUser and output it down there.
That is something we could do
and technically that would absolutely work.
But by the way, I'm saying this,
you already hear that this is probably not how we're going
to do it.
The idea in React really is that you work
with a bunch of components
that you have small isolated pieces
of HTML code and logic where every component really
has its own task,
its own responsibility you could say.
And therefore you wanna keep
your components small and focused.
You could certainly argue that a component
that fetches user input
and then outputs this as a list is focused enough
but I would argue that it's better
to have one component that fetches user input
that's this AddUser component which we already have.
And then we have another component that is responsible
for outputting the list of users
so that we split the outputting
and the fetching logic into two different components.
And therefore I'll add a brand new component,
the UsersList component, like this.
And here the UsersList component should be responsible
for well, outputting my user data.
Therefore, in there, of course,
we're going to write a React component.
So let's import React from React
so that we can use JSX code.
And then here we have UsersList.
We get our props here and we'll of course export
our component here so that we can use it in our files.
And then here I want to in the end return an unordered list
where I want to go through a list of users
which I well, need to get in some way
and output a couple of list items for every user.
So one list item for every user.
How does this work?
Well, it think it makes sense to assume
that in the UsersList component,
we rely on props to get our actual array of users as data.
So here between the unordered list
we could actually use props.
Let's say users,
it's your component.
So it's up to you which prop name you expect here.
I expect to have a prop property which is named users
and that should hold an array of user data.
So we can use the map method
which you learned about in the lists and conditionals module
to map that array of users,
queue and array of JSX elements.
So to transform our user data to JSX elements
which then are rendered onto the DOM.
So map executes a function on every item
in the user's array
and we'll get that item as input.
Since it's an array of users
I'll name that single item user
and write a anonymous arrow function here.
And then in this anonymous arrow function
we return a JSX element for every user
of that user's array we expect to get on this prop.
So the element,
the JSX element which I wanna render
is simply a list item here
and inside of the list item,
I want to output the username.
Let's say we expect user to be an object
with a name property,
then we could do it like this.
And then thereafter,
maybe in parentheses
and that's just text here,
not a special react syntax.
So between this parentheses text,
I want to output let's say user.age years old.
So my expectation here is that users
is an array of user objects
where every object has a name property and an age property.
Why can I expect this?
Because we're the ones creating this app.
It's up to us to decide how we wanna manage our data.
And I wanna manage an array of user objects
where every object has a name property and age property.
So with that we have the logic in place to output our users.
Some styling would be nice.
And for that,
I first of all will wrap this list in a card.
So I want to have that card component look here as well.
So I'll import card again from UI card
and we need to import it here
even though we already imported it in AddUser
because you need to import what you wanna use
in a certain component into every component
where you wanna use it.
So it's not enough to just import card once
in another component you need to import it
in every component where you wanna use the card.
With that we can use card here to wrap the unordered list.
And now I also wanna have some styling.
And for that you find a UsersList.module.css file attached
which you can just drag and drop into your users folder.
And from there, you know the game we can import classes
from UsersList.module.css to use that CSS modules feature.
And then here on the card,
I'll add the class name prop,
which I can because a few lectures ago,
we made sure that we utilize
the incoming class name prop here instead of the card.
So we can set it here.
We can set the prop and I set it to classes.user
to have not just a default card class on that card component
but also my special user class.
Excuse me, users not user
With that we got a UsersList component.
Now we need to use it.
And that leads us to the next question.
Where do we wanna use this brand new component?
We could use it here in AddUser.
We could use it here below to form UsersList like this.
We just have to add an import and we could use it there.
That would be fine, but I don't think it makes sense.
It's the AddUser component.
If some other developer would have written this component
and you would need to use it in your application,
would you expect that this component does not just fetch
the data and add it
but that it also outputs to user data by the name AddUser.
It doesn't sound to me like it's going to output anything.
It's just about adding something,
about getting some data to add something,
something like that.
So whilst you again could technically render it here.
I think it logically makes more sense
to include it somewhere else.
And in case you're now wondering
how you should decide where to render it,
it's your app at the end.
You can render things where you want,
you can structure your app in the way you want,
and the more you work with React
the more you will get a feeling
for common patterns and practices.
In this course, you will also learn a lot about that
and of course see a lot of examples here.
Here, I wanna render the UsersList and the app component
because that's also where I use AddUser.
So to me, it makes sense that we then have UsersList here
as a component next to AddUser.
So we build our app here.
We first have to block for getting that user data,
then we have to block for outputting the user
and below that we might have other parts in the app
like a footer or something like that.
Now to use that UsersList component here
we need to import UsersList
from ./components/Users/UsersLists like this
and now we can use it though it won't work.
And actually, whilst we don't get an error here
we do see an error here.
Cannot read property map of undefined.
Now I told you not to panic when you see an error message.
So let's see what's the problem here.
It points us at the UsersList component line nine
and it shows us the code snippets that's the problem.
Here it's in the end where we call map on the user's prop.
This fails because map does not exist on undefined.
What does this tell us?
It tells us that in the UsersList component
here users doesn't seem to be an array.
It seems to be undefined,
and undefined, of course, is a valued type of JavaScript
and indeed undefined,
this value type doesn't have a map method that is correct.
You can't map undefined.
Now why is users undefined?
Because in the place where we use UsersList.
So in the app component,
we're not setting that users prop.
Keep in mind I'm extracting users from props.
So I expect to get that users data that array in the end
on the user's prop on my UsersList component.
So when I use this component in JSX when I use it
as a regular HTML tag in the end
I need to set that users prop
or I need to include a check here where I check
whether it's undefined and I don't even try to map it,
that would be an alternative.
But here I of course always wanna set it.
So in AppJS we need to set the user's prop
and this has to be users
because that's the name we are retrieving here.
If you picked a different name here,
you need to pick a different name here too,
but I'm working with users
and we need to set this to an array.
And for now an empty array, of course,
does the trick.
With that we don't see a list,
but we also don't see an error
and we at least see the card where the list
will eventually be rendered.
That was a huge step forward.
Now let's make sure we actually manage a list of users.